Shine Demo 2/18/15

I wanted to work on one of the really big problems in america today.
Something so big it either affects you or someone you know.
So what did I do? Well I built an internet connected scale to weigh things.
What things? Well cats specifically.

Wait cats? Yeah cats.
And I know it sounds funny at first.
But here me out. I haven't taken societies body image issues and extended it to cats or anything that crazy.

About five months ago I took my cat to the vet for growth on it's chin.
The vet said, don't worry about that, it's cat acne. But you're cat is overweight.
It needs to go on a diet now.

Ok, so I started reading up on how to help my cat, Aiko, loose weight.
And according to a bunch of research it turns out 50% of cats are overweight.
And guess how many cats there are in america? 100 million. So that 50 million overweight cats.
I started talking to vets, and vet techs and managers at pet supply stores.
All of them agreed that most cats are overwieght and it's a health issue that degrades quality of life in older years.
Cats get arthritis, joint issues, diabetes, and even heart problems.
Probably the most noticable is some cats stop jumping up and down because it hurts their joints.

First off I didn't actually know how much my cat was eating. So I started there and tried to feed her less.
But she would cry for food all the time. To be fair, she cried for food all the time before.
But now it was harder because I was actively telling her 'No more food'.

And this kind of worked for a week or so, but then I'd feel bad.
And since I didn't really know what her weight was I'd give in.

So I figured I needed to weigh her to know what was happening.
I had a scale at my house, but it was for humans. I ended up weighing myself, then weighing both of us and doing math.
Then writing that down on a peice of paper on the fridge.
And this started working. Sorta. I could now see her weight and a bit of change.
The problem with this is that human scales generally are only accurate to a fifth of a pound, which is 1% of a cats body weight.

And thats when I decided the real answer would be to build a scale accurate for cat weights.
I also wanted to stop recording on the fridge. And ultimately it should able to be placed near the food bowl where
a cat will step on it a few times a day and automatically weigh in.
What I really wanted was an automated email that would keep me updated a few times a week about progress, without me or the
cat doing anything.

So I started down this road to build a cat scale.
Setting up a webserver to view a cats progress was relatively straightforward. I'm a web developer so I used what I knew to get
something simple, but nice up in about two weeks.

Then came the actualy scale. At first I was super excited to dive into the world of electronics and hardware and circuit diagrams.
I had been causually playing with the Arduino ecosystem for a few weeks. Its sort of the electical engineering equivelent to legos.
I got led's to flash and motion detectors to alert. All by using online tutorials.
I found a super awesome hacker space in the Mission called Noisebridge. They've got all types of tools for soldering,
hacking, tinkering, and building in general. If you need to build something and don't mind chaos, this is a great place.
I found some tutorials for making wireless scale that I based my designs off of.
But then on day 5 of working on the scale I realized I didn't really know how to read half the circuit diagrams I found out there.
I had a pretty bad 24-48 hours where I thought this whole thing would fall apart and all I'd have to show was a website that any
software developer could put up. What would be interesting or special about that.

Anyway I kept working and got lots of help from people at Noisebridge, and engineering connections through folks at the Passion Co.

So lets do a demo of what's been done.
Full warning, live technical demos are generally not great idea, especially when the code has been changing on a daily basis.
Anything could happen.


So thats it.
Right now the site is live, so if you or someone you know, whats to start tracking their cat's weight they can.
The site it free to use. Their need their own scale.

I'm currently talking to a few electrical engineers to build about a dozen revised prototypes for people.
There is a link to 'Register for Updates' when those are out.
If anyone is interested in helping with the project come talk to me.
I'm looking for people to test it out and give me feedback or engineers who want to help design the next scale.
Or really I'm open to anything if you are interested in helping.




